README.md, before:

# waifuvault-C#-api

![tests](https://github.com/waifuvault/waifuVault-csharp-api/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml/badge.svg)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/waifuvault/waifuVault-csharp-api.png)](https://github.com/waifuvault/waifuVault-csharp-api/issues)
[![last-commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/waifuvault/waifuVault-csharp-api)](https://github.com/waifuvault/waifuVault-csharp-api/commits/master)

This contains the official API bindings for uploading, deleting and obtaining files
with [waifuvault.moe](https://waifuvault.moe/). Contains a full up to date API for interacting with the service

## Installation

```sh
dotnet add package Waifuvault
```

## Usage

This API contains 5 interactions:

1. Upload File
2. Get File Info
3. Update File Info
4. Delete File
5. Get File
6. Create Bucket
7. Delete Bucket
8. Get Bucket

The package is namespaced to `Waifuvault`, so to import it, simply:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
```

### Upload File

To Upload a file, use the `uploadFile` function. This function takes the following options as an object:

| Option            | Type          | Description                                                     | Required       | Extra info                       |
|-------------------|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|----------------------------------|
| `filename`        | `string `     | The path to the file to upload                                  | true if File   | File path                        |
| `url`             | `string`      | The URL of the file to target                                   | true if URL    | Filename with extension          |
| `buffer`          | `byte array`  | Byte array containing file to upload                            | true if buffer | Needs filename set also          |
| `bucketToken`     | `string`      | Token for a bucket to upload the file into                      | false          | Create bucket gives token        |
| `expires`         | `string`      | A string containing a number and a unit (1d = 1day)             | false          | Valid units are `m`, `h` and `d` |
| `hideFilename`    | `boolean`     | If true, then the uploaded filename won't appear in the URL     | false          | Defaults to `false`              |
| `password`        | `string`      | If set, then the uploaded file will be encrypted                | false          |                                  |
| `ct`              | `canceltoken` | An optional cancellation token that can be passed in            | false          | Standard cancellation token      |
| `oneTimeDownload` | `boolean`     | if supplied, the file will be deleted as soon as it is accessed | false          |                                  |

Using a URL:

```cs
using Waifuvault;

var uploadFile = new Waifuvault.FileUpload("https://waifuvault.moe/assets/custom/images/08.png");
var uploadResp = await Waifuvault.Api.uploadFile(uploadFile);

Console.WriteLine(uploadResp.url);
```

Using a file path:

```cs
using Waifuvault;

var uploadFile = new Waifuvault.FileUpload("../aCoolFile.png");
var uploadResp = await Waifuvault.Api.uploadFile(uploadFile);

Console.WriteLine(uploadResp.url);
```

Using a buffer:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
using System.IO;

byte[] buffer = File.ReadAllBytes("./aCoolFile.png");
var uploadFile = new Waifuvault.FileUpload(buffer,"aCoolFile.png");
var uploadResp = await Waifuvault.Api.uploadFile(uploadFile);

Console.WriteLine(uploadResp.url);
```

Cancelable with a file:

```cs
using Waifuvault;

var cts = new CancellationTokenSource(2000);  // Auto cancel in 2s
var cancelFile = new Waifuvault.FileUpload("./largeFile.mkv");
try {
    var cancelled = await Waifuvault.Api.uploadFile(cancelFile,cts.Token);
} catch(OperationCanceledException) {
    Console.WriteLine("Cancelled upload");
}
```

### Get File Info

If you have a token from your upload. Then you can get file info. This results in the following info:

* token
* url
* protected
* retentionPeriod

Use the `fileInfo` function. This function takes the following options as parameters:

| Option      | Type      | Description                                                        | Required | Extra info        |
|-------------|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-------------------|
| `token`     | `string`  | The token of the upload                                            | true     |                   |
| `formatted` | `boolean` | If you want the `retentionPeriod` to be human-readable or an epoch | false    | defaults to false |
| `ct`        | `canceltoken`| An optional cancellation token that can be passed in            | false    | Standard cancellation token |

Epoch timestamp:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var tokenInfo = await Waifuvault.Api.fileInfo(uploadResp.token,false);
Console.WriteLine(tokenInfo.url);
Console.WriteLine(tokenInfo.retentionPeriod);
```

Human-readable timestamp:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var tokenInfo = await Waifuvault.Api.fileInfo(uploadResp.token,true);
Console.WriteLine(tokenInfo.url);
Console.WriteLine(tokenInfo.retentionPeriod);
```

### Update File Info

If you have a token from your upload, then you can update the information for the file.  You can change the password or remove it, 
you can set custom expiry time or remove it, and finally you can choose whether the filename is hidden.

Use the `fileUpdate` function. This function takes the following options as parameters:

| Option              | Type     | Description                                             | Required | Extra info                                  |
|---------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------|
| `token`             | `string` | The token of the upload                                 | true     |                                             |
| `password`          | `string` | The current password of the file                        | false    | Set to empty string to remove password      |
| `previousPassword`  | `string` | The previous password of the file, if changing password | false    |                                             |
| `customExpiry`      | `string` | Custom expiry in the same form as upload command        | false    | Set to empty string to remove custom expiry |
| `hideFilename`      | `bool`   | Sets whether the filename is visible in the URL or not  | false    |                                             |

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var updateInfo = await Waifuvault.Api.fileUpdate(uploadResp.token, customExpiry:"2d");
Console.WriteLine(updateInfo.retentionPeriod);
```

### Delete File

To delete a file, you must supply your token to the `deletefile` function.

This function takes the following options as parameters:

| Option  | Type     | Description                              | Required | Extra info |
|---------|----------|------------------------------------------|----------|------------|
| `token` | `string` | The token of the file you wish to delete | true     |            |
| `ct`    | `canceltoken`| An optional cancellation token that can be passed in            | false    | Standard cancellation token |

Standard delete:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var deleted = await Waifuvault.Api.deleteFile(token);
Console.WriteLine(deleted);
```

### Get File

This lib also supports obtaining a file from the API as a Buffer by supplying either the token or the unique identifier
of the file (epoch/filename).

Use the `getFile` function. This function takes the following options an object:

| Option     | Type     | Description                                | Required                           | Extra info                                      |
|------------|----------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| `token`    | `string` | The token of the file you want to download | true only if `filename` is not set | if `filename` is set, then this can not be used |
| `url`      | `string` | The URL of the file                        | true only if `token` is not set    | if `token` is set, then this can not be used    |
| `password` | `string` | The password for the file                  | true if file is encrypted          | Passed as a parameter on the function call      |
| `ct`       | `canceltoken`| An optional cancellation token that can be passed in            | false    | Standard cancellation token |

> **Important!** The Unique identifier filename is the epoch/filename only if the file uploaded did not have a hidden
> filename, if it did, then it's just the epoch.
> For example: `1710111505084/08.png` is the Unique identifier for a standard upload of a file called `08.png`, if this
> was uploaded with hidden filename, then it would be `1710111505084.png`

Obtain an encrypted file

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var file = new FileResponse(token:your_token);
var downloaded = await Waifuvault.Api.getFile(file,"password");
Console.WriteLine(downloaded.Length);
```

Obtain a file from URL

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var file = new FileResponse(url:your_url);
var downloaded = await Waifuvault.Api.getFile(file);
Console.WriteLine(downloaded.Length);
```

Obtain file with ability to cancel:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var cts = new CancellationTokenSource(2000);  // Auto cancel in 2s
var file = new FileResponse(token:your_token);
try {
    var cancelled = await Waifuvault.Api.getFile(file, cts.Token);
} catch(OperationCanceledException) {
    Console.WriteLine("Canceled download");
}
```

### Create Bucket

Buckets are virtual collections that are linked to your IP and a token. When you create a bucket, you will receive a bucket token that you can use in Get Bucket to get all the files in that bucket

> **NOTE:** Only one bucket is allowed per client IP address, if you call it more than once, it will return the same bucket token

To create a bucket, use the `createBucket` function. This function does not take any arguments.

```csharp
using Waifuvault;
var bucket = await Waifuvault.Api.createBucket();
Console.WriteLine(bucket.token);
```

### Delete Bucket

Deleting a bucket will delete the bucket and all the files it contains.

> **IMPORTANT:**  All contained files will be **DELETED** along with the Bucket!

To delete a bucket, you must call the `deleteBucket` function with the following options as parameters:

| Option      | Type      | Description                       | Required | Extra info        |
|-------------|-----------|-----------------------------------|----------|-------------------|
| `token`     | `string`  | The token of the bucket to delete | true     |                   |

> **NOTE:** `deleteBucket` will only ever either return `true` or throw an exception if the token is invalid

```csharp
using Waifuvault;
var resp = await Waifuvault.Api.deleteBucket("some-bucket-token");
Console.WriteLine(resp);
```

### Get Bucket

To get the list of files contained in a bucket, you use the `getBucket` functions and supply the token.
This function takes the following options as parameters:

| Option      | Type      | Description             | Required | Extra info        |
|-------------|-----------|-------------------------|----------|-------------------|
| `token`     | `string`  | The token of the bucket | true     |                   |

This will respond with the bucket and all the files the bucket contains.

```csharp
using Waifuvault;
var bucket = await Waifuvault.Api.getBucket("some-bucket-token");
Console.WriteLine(bucket.token);
foreach(var file in bucket.files)
{
    Console.WriteLine(file.token);    
}
```

Commit message:

Add notes about exceptions on invalid tokens to both delete README entries

README.md, after:

# waifuvault-C#-api

![tests](https://github.com/waifuvault/waifuVault-csharp-api/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml/badge.svg)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/waifuvault/waifuVault-csharp-api.png)](https://github.com/waifuvault/waifuVault-csharp-api/issues)
[![last-commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/waifuvault/waifuVault-csharp-api)](https://github.com/waifuvault/waifuVault-csharp-api/commits/master)

This contains the official API bindings for uploading, deleting and obtaining files
with [waifuvault.moe](https://waifuvault.moe/). Contains a full up to date API for interacting with the service

## Installation

```sh
dotnet add package Waifuvault
```

## Usage

This API contains 5 interactions:

1. Upload File
2. Get File Info
3. Update File Info
4. Delete File
5. Get File
6. Create Bucket
7. Delete Bucket
8. Get Bucket

The package is namespaced to `Waifuvault`, so to import it, simply:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
```

### Upload File

To Upload a file, use the `uploadFile` function. This function takes the following options as an object:

| Option            | Type          | Description                                                     | Required       | Extra info                       |
|-------------------|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|----------------------------------|
| `filename`        | `string `     | The path to the file to upload                                  | true if File   | File path                        |
| `url`             | `string`      | The URL of the file to target                                   | true if URL    | Filename with extension          |
| `buffer`          | `byte array`  | Byte array containing file to upload                            | true if buffer | Needs filename set also          |
| `bucketToken`     | `string`      | Token for a bucket to upload the file into                      | false          | Create bucket gives token        |
| `expires`         | `string`      | A string containing a number and a unit (1d = 1day)             | false          | Valid units are `m`, `h` and `d` |
| `hideFilename`    | `boolean`     | If true, then the uploaded filename won't appear in the URL     | false          | Defaults to `false`              |
| `password`        | `string`      | If set, then the uploaded file will be encrypted                | false          |                                  |
| `ct`              | `canceltoken` | An optional cancellation token that can be passed in            | false          | Standard cancellation token      |
| `oneTimeDownload` | `boolean`     | if supplied, the file will be deleted as soon as it is accessed | false          |                                  |

Using a URL:

```cs
using Waifuvault;

var uploadFile = new Waifuvault.FileUpload("https://waifuvault.moe/assets/custom/images/08.png");
var uploadResp = await Waifuvault.Api.uploadFile(uploadFile);

Console.WriteLine(uploadResp.url);
```

Using a file path:

```cs
using Waifuvault;

var uploadFile = new Waifuvault.FileUpload("../aCoolFile.png");
var uploadResp = await Waifuvault.Api.uploadFile(uploadFile);

Console.WriteLine(uploadResp.url);
```

Using a buffer:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
using System.IO;

byte[] buffer = File.ReadAllBytes("./aCoolFile.png");
var uploadFile = new Waifuvault.FileUpload(buffer,"aCoolFile.png");
var uploadResp = await Waifuvault.Api.uploadFile(uploadFile);

Console.WriteLine(uploadResp.url);
```

Cancelable with a file:

```cs
using Waifuvault;

var cts = new CancellationTokenSource(2000);  // Auto cancel in 2s
var cancelFile = new Waifuvault.FileUpload("./largeFile.mkv");
try {
    var cancelled = await Waifuvault.Api.uploadFile(cancelFile,cts.Token);
} catch(OperationCanceledException) {
    Console.WriteLine("Cancelled upload");
}
```

### Get File Info

If you have a token from your upload. Then you can get file info. This results in the following info:

* token
* url
* protected
* retentionPeriod

Use the `fileInfo` function. This function takes the following options as parameters:

| Option      | Type      | Description                                                        | Required | Extra info        |
|-------------|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-------------------|
| `token`     | `string`  | The token of the upload                                            | true     |                   |
| `formatted` | `boolean` | If you want the `retentionPeriod` to be human-readable or an epoch | false    | defaults to false |
| `ct`        | `canceltoken`| An optional cancellation token that can be passed in            | false    | Standard cancellation token |

Epoch timestamp:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var tokenInfo = await Waifuvault.Api.fileInfo(uploadResp.token,false);
Console.WriteLine(tokenInfo.url);
Console.WriteLine(tokenInfo.retentionPeriod);
```

Human-readable timestamp:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var tokenInfo = await Waifuvault.Api.fileInfo(uploadResp.token,true);
Console.WriteLine(tokenInfo.url);
Console.WriteLine(tokenInfo.retentionPeriod);
```

### Update File Info

If you have a token from your upload, then you can update the information for the file.  You can change the password or remove it, 
you can set custom expiry time or remove it, and finally you can choose whether the filename is hidden.

Use the `fileUpdate` function. This function takes the following options as parameters:

| Option              | Type     | Description                                             | Required | Extra info                                  |
|---------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------|
| `token`             | `string` | The token of the upload                                 | true     |                                             |
| `password`          | `string` | The current password of the file                        | false    | Set to empty string to remove password      |
| `previousPassword`  | `string` | The previous password of the file, if changing password | false    |                                             |
| `customExpiry`      | `string` | Custom expiry in the same form as upload command        | false    | Set to empty string to remove custom expiry |
| `hideFilename`      | `bool`   | Sets whether the filename is visible in the URL or not  | false    |                                             |

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var updateInfo = await Waifuvault.Api.fileUpdate(uploadResp.token, customExpiry:"2d");
Console.WriteLine(updateInfo.retentionPeriod);
```

### Delete File

To delete a file, you must supply your token to the `deletefile` function.

This function takes the following options as parameters:

| Option  | Type     | Description                              | Required | Extra info |
|---------|----------|------------------------------------------|----------|------------|
| `token` | `string` | The token of the file you wish to delete | true     |            |
| `ct`    | `canceltoken`| An optional cancellation token that can be passed in            | false    | Standard cancellation token |

> **NOTE:** `deleteFile` will only ever either return `true` or throw an exception if the token is invalid

Standard delete:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var deleted = await Waifuvault.Api.deleteFile(token);
Console.WriteLine(deleted);
```

### Get File

This lib also supports obtaining a file from the API as a Buffer by supplying either the token or the unique identifier
of the file (epoch/filename).

Use the `getFile` function. This function takes the following options an object:

| Option     | Type     | Description                                | Required                           | Extra info                                      |
|------------|----------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| `token`    | `string` | The token of the file you want to download | true only if `filename` is not set | if `filename` is set, then this can not be used |
| `url`      | `string` | The URL of the file                        | true only if `token` is not set    | if `token` is set, then this can not be used    |
| `password` | `string` | The password for the file                  | true if file is encrypted          | Passed as a parameter on the function call      |
| `ct`       | `canceltoken`| An optional cancellation token that can be passed in            | false    | Standard cancellation token |

> **Important!** The Unique identifier filename is the epoch/filename only if the file uploaded did not have a hidden
> filename, if it did, then it's just the epoch.
> For example: `1710111505084/08.png` is the Unique identifier for a standard upload of a file called `08.png`, if this
> was uploaded with hidden filename, then it would be `1710111505084.png`

Obtain an encrypted file

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var file = new FileResponse(token:your_token);
var downloaded = await Waifuvault.Api.getFile(file,"password");
Console.WriteLine(downloaded.Length);
```

Obtain a file from URL

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var file = new FileResponse(url:your_url);
var downloaded = await Waifuvault.Api.getFile(file);
Console.WriteLine(downloaded.Length);
```

Obtain file with ability to cancel:

```cs
using Waifuvault;
var cts = new CancellationTokenSource(2000);  // Auto cancel in 2s
var file = new FileResponse(token:your_token);
try {
    var cancelled = await Waifuvault.Api.getFile(file, cts.Token);
} catch(OperationCanceledException) {
    Console.WriteLine("Canceled download");
}
```

### Create Bucket

Buckets are virtual collections that are linked to your IP and a token. When you create a bucket, you will receive a bucket token that you can use in Get Bucket to get all the files in that bucket

> **NOTE:** Only one bucket is allowed per client IP address, if you call it more than once, it will return the same bucket token

To create a bucket, use the `createBucket` function. This function does not take any arguments.

```csharp
using Waifuvault;
var bucket = await Waifuvault.Api.createBucket();
Console.WriteLine(bucket.token);
```

### Delete Bucket

Deleting a bucket will delete the bucket and all the files it contains.

> **IMPORTANT:**  All contained files will be **DELETED** along with the Bucket!

To delete a bucket, you must call the `deleteBucket` function with the following options as parameters:

| Option      | Type      | Description                       | Required | Extra info        |
|-------------|-----------|-----------------------------------|----------|-------------------|
| `token`     | `string`  | The token of the bucket to delete | true     |                   |

> **NOTE:** `deleteBucket` will only ever either return `true` or throw an exception if the token is invalid

```csharp
using Waifuvault;
var resp = await Waifuvault.Api.deleteBucket("some-bucket-token");
Console.WriteLine(resp);
```

### Get Bucket

To get the list of files contained in a bucket, you use the `getBucket` functions and supply the token.
This function takes the following options as parameters:

| Option      | Type      | Description             | Required | Extra info        |
|-------------|-----------|-------------------------|----------|-------------------|
| `token`     | `string`  | The token of the bucket | true     |                   |

This will respond with the bucket and all the files the bucket contains.

```csharp
using Waifuvault;
var bucket = await Waifuvault.Api.getBucket("some-bucket-token");
Console.WriteLine(bucket.token);
foreach(var file in bucket.files)
{
    Console.WriteLine(file.token);    
}
```
